This morning, very early, Zeal message me a link which points to a workshop at a conference he was attending.  The workshop is on ChatGPT and linguistics.  An area I was trying to persuade him to look into.  

Here is our conversation.  Thought you might find it interesting and I would like to see your thoughts.

Zeal:  (with the link) if you are interested.  (He thought I was interested in liguistics with LLM, which I was, similar to that I was interested in Quantum Physics, just wondering what I can understand.)

Me:  The challenge was to be counted by whom that matters.  Neither you or I am in a position to pick what we do and have any degree of certainty that what we do will be counted.  You are in a better position than I do, and so you have more pressure.  I am glad to see you are handling it well.  Will look.  (I know he is challenged to NOT wade into areas which will not benefit his career.)

Zeal:  People at this conference know about this, and they're ridiculing it. Note that the organizer seems to be an independent AI institute. I need to soberly and objectively tell you how this kind of work is being received in the circles I'm in. 

Me:  You are right in your assessment to the first look.  You need to look a little deeper.  These guys come here and got ridiculed.  Why?  Some of them like to be abused.  Some of them believe in what they are doing.  But I bet you, majority of them actually went there for one reason only:  that is their job.  Which also means that somebody is paying them, similar to your conference is paying you! (He won the scholarship and the conference paid his flight and hotel to the conference.)  I am not saying go for that.  I am saying that what I learned was:  if you want something, you HAVE to find that somebody who is willing to pay for it.  Your way of finding something that is a lot of people is willing to pay is a good way (He choose to be a computer teacher and was working on that), have a much better chance of success than what I am doing (I am working on finding a programming job related to AI, not just a programming job).  I am only worry that if it is good enough AFTER you got it. 

(Before I went to Kansas, I was concerned that he might be giving up on his Linguistics pursures which turned out to be not the case, so I am no longer concerned on that.  What I was concerned was the fact that he was stretched too thin and want to convince him that, for a computer teaching job, he can do it any time when needed.  No need to be stressed on doing too much now because he is ALSO trhing to finish his Ph.D. in 4 years instead of normal 5 years.)



